			      ONScripter-En

	   An enhanced portable open-source NScripter clone


  HISTORY

Naoki Takahashi's `NScripter' is a popular Japanese game engine used
for both commercial and free visual novels.  It attained popularity
due to its liberal terms of use and relative simplicity.  However, it
is closed source software and only available for Windows.

A number of cross-platform clones exist, and Ogapee's `ONScripter' is
the most popular of these.  Due to the ease with which it can be
modified to support languages other than Japanese, ONScripter has been
adopted by the visual novel localisation community as the engine of
choice for translated NScripter games; the patch to support English
even made it into the main ONScripter source code.

Nevertheless, the English-language community has found it convenient
to maintain its own branch of the code, and to enhance it in ways best
suited to the use we make of it.

ONScripter-En is that branch.


  REQUIREMENTS

ONScripter is based on SDL, and should run on any platform for which
SDL is available.  It has been successfully compiled on platforms as
diverse as the Dreamcast, the PSP, and the iPod.

ONScripter-En has slightly more strict requirements, however.  Since
ONScripter's original build system is extremely difficult to use, it
has been replaced in this branch with a more conventional
configure-build system; this depends on a POSIX-like environment with
GNU make, and the code has only been tested with the GNU C++ compiler.

The primary test environment is GNU/Linux, and the secondary test
environment is MacOS X.  Assuming standard build tools are installed,
the full-source distribution is almost guaranteed to compile
out-of-the-box on these and any other POSIX-conformant platform (BSD,
Solaris, etc).  The code is known to work on both 32-bit and 64-bit
Unixen.

This distribution is also tested on Windows.  Building on Windows
requires the MinGW distribution of g++, and the MSYS environment.
Windows users unfamiliar with Unix might prefer to stick with the
binary distribution.  64-bit Windows has not been tested.

Please see INSTALL for specific build instructions.


  PLAYING GAMES

Playing an existing game with ONScripter-En requires two additional
files to be added to the game directory:

- `default.ttf', a TrueType font.  The free font Sazanami Gothic is
  known to work.

- `game.id', a text file containing simply the name of the game.  This
  is used to identify a separate directory where saved data is stored;
  unlike the original ONScripter, which places saved games in the game
  directory, ONScripter-En does not require games to be kept in a
  world-writable location.

This done, the game can be played either by dropping the `onscripter'
executable into the game directory and running it, or by running it
with the `-r' command-line option to identify the desired game.

The saved game location behaviour can be overridden with the `-s'
command-line option if you wish for some reason to restore the default
ONScripter behaviour or to place saves somewhere else.

Please run `onscripter --help' for details of other command-line
options.


  PACKAGING GAMES

ONScripter-En includes some features designed to make packaging new
games or translations in a platform-appropriate fashion easier and
neater.

Firstly, `game.id' can be replaced by a line

  ;gameid Your Title Here

at the start of the script, or immediately after the modeline if
present.

Secondly, the saved-game location behaviour described above means that
you do not have to worry about installing to a world-writable
location; this should simplify matters considerably on Vista and on
Unix-type platforms.  In the latter case, the recommended approach is
to store game data somewhere appropriate in the filesystem
(e.g. /usr/local/share/<title>) and to create a shell script in an
appropriate binary folder (e.g. /usr/local/bin/<title>) that launches
the onscripter executable with a suitable argument to -r.

MacOS X deserves special mention.  OS X applications are typically
distributed as bundles, and ONScripter includes special code to make
this possible for NScripter games.  Simply place the `onscripter'
binary in <game>.app/Contents/MacOS, and the files that would normally
go in the game directory (script, data archives, default.ttf, etc) in
<game>.app/Contents/Resources, and everything should Just Work; you'll
have a native-looking OS X game that can be drag-installed and deleted
to uninstall.


  CONTACT INFORMATION

The author of ONScripter itself is Ogapee, who can be reached by email
at the address

  ogapee@aqua.dti2.ne.jp

The maintainer of this branch (as of April 2007) is Haeleth, who can
be reached by email at the address

  haeleth@haeleth.net

Correspondence in English, or regarding issues related to this branch
in particular, should be directed to this latter address in the first
instance.


  LICENSE

ONScripter and ONScripter-En are distributed under the terms of the
GNU General Public License.  See COPYING for details.
